README.md, before:

# pyprint

A command line tool for sending files to print on a Unix-like operating system such as Linux or macOS. The main purpose of the tool is to allow the user to easily print a large number of files following a certain naming pattern that are located in different directories on the file system. This functionality can essentially be replicated by piping the output of a the command line tool `find` or `fd` into `lp` with arguments that can be discovered with `lpoptions` and `lpstat`. `pyprint` is intended to simplify this for users that are not familiar with these commands and/or piping. On top of this simplification, it simplifies the process of discovering and setting options for operations such as stapling. The names of these options and the names of their valid values are typically dependent on the brand of the printing device.

`pyprint` is currently not intended to be extremely customizable. The goal is to provide the most common options with reasonable defaults.

# Installation

The tool can be installed manually using `pip` by downloading/cloning the repo and by running

```bash
pip install --user .
```

inside the directory. The directory can be removed after the installation is complete.

Alternatively, if `git` is installed on the system, `pyprint` can also be installed by running

```bash
pip install --user git+https://github.com/martinstefanik/pyprint
```

In order to remove `pyprint`, simply run

```bash
pip uninstall pyprint
```

`pyprint` requires the `cups` package to be installed on the system. Many Linux distributions comes with `cups` pre-installed, but you might need to install it manually.

# Usage

Details about the usage of the tool can be obtained by running `pyprint --help`. Note in particular the `--dry-run` option which allows the user to test the files filtered out by the regular expression given to the `--regex` option before actually sending the files to print.

An example of a common call is given by

```bash
pyprint --printer HP --sides 2 --staple --regex ".*\.pdf$" ~/Documents/library
```

This prints all the PDF files located in `~/Documents/library` two-sided and stapled from the printer called HP. If HP does not support two-sided print or stapling, a corresponding error is raised.

If the `--printer` option is omitted, the user is shown the list of available printers and is prompted to choose one of them as follows

```bash
Available printers:
  1) HP_LaserJet_office
  2) HP_LaserJet_hall
Printer to use:
```

Commit message:

Add a Python regular expressions reference

README.md, after:

# pyprint

A command line tool for sending files to print on a Unix-like operating system such as Linux or macOS. The main purpose of the tool is to allow the user to easily print a large number of files following a certain naming pattern that are located in different directories on the file system. This functionality can essentially be replicated by piping the output of the command line tool `find` or `fd` into `lp` with arguments that can be discovered with `lpoptions` and `lpstat`. `pyprint` is intended to simplify this for users that are not familiar with these commands and/or piping. On top of this simplification, it simplifies the process of discovering and setting options for operations such as stapling. The names of these options and the names of their valid values are typically dependent on the brand of the printing device.

`pyprint` is currently not intended to be extremely customizable. The goal is to provide the most common options with reasonable defaults.

# Installation

The tool can be installed manually using `pip` by downloading/cloning the repo and by running

```bash
pip install --user .
```

inside the directory. The directory can be removed after the installation is complete.

Alternatively, if `git` is installed on the system, `pyprint` can also be installed by running

```bash
pip install --user git+https://github.com/martinstefanik/pyprint
```

In order to remove `pyprint`, simply run

```bash
pip uninstall pyprint
```

`pyprint` requires the `cups` package to be installed on the system. Many Linux distributions comes with `cups` pre-installed, but you might need to install it manually.

# Usage

Details about the usage of the tool can be obtained by running `pyprint --help`. Note in particular the `--dry-run` option which allows the user to test the files filtered out by the regular expression given to the `--regex` option before actually sending the files to print.

An example of a common call is given by

```bash
pyprint --printer HP --sides 2 --staple --regex ".*\.pdf$" ~/Documents/library
```

This prints all the PDF files located in `~/Documents/library` two-sided and stapled from the printer called HP. If HP does not support two-sided print or stapling, a corresponding error is raised.

If the `--printer` option is omitted, the user is shown the list of available printers and is prompted to choose one of them as follows

```bash
Available printers:
  1) HP_LaserJet_office
  2) HP_LaserJet_hall
Printer to use:
```
See [here](https://docs.python.org/3/library/re.html#regular-expression-syntax) for details about Python regular expressions syntax.
